docs/docs/additional-functionality.mdx, before:

---
title: Additional Functionality
description: Additional Functionality | Transloco Angular i18n 
---

### Reference Other Keys

You can point to specific keys in other keys from the same translation file. For example:

```json title="en.json"
{
  "alert": "alert {{value}} english",
  "home": "home english",
  "fromList": "from {{home}}"
}
```

So the result of `service.translate('fromList')` will be: "from home english".

When using this feature inside a [scope](./lazy-load/scope-configuration), make sure you prefix the key reference with the scope name:

```json title="admin/en.json"
{
  "alert": "alert {{value}} english",
  "home": "home english",
  "fromList": "from {{admin.home}}"
}
```

So the result of `service.translate('admin.fromList')` will be: "from home english".

You can also pass parameters to the reused key. For example:

```json title="en.json"
{
  "hello": "Hello {{name}},",
  "greet": "{{hello}}, have a good day!"
}
```

So the result of `service.translate('greet', {name: 'John'})` will be: "Hello John, have a good day!".

**Watch out from creating circular referencing!** For Example:

```json title="en.json"
{
  "key": "{{key2}}",
  "key2": "{{key}}"
}
```

### `translate()`

You don't have to inject the service each time you need to translate a key. Transloco has an exported `translate()` function:

```ts
import { translate } from '@ngneat/transloco';

translate('hello');
```

:::important
Note that this function is a proxy to the [TranslocoService.translate](./translation-api#translate) method. 
It will not work if the service didn't initialize.  
In order to safely use this method, you are responsible for ensuring that the translation files have been successfully loaded by the time it's called.
:::

### `getBrowserLang()`

Returns the language code name from the browser, e.g. `"en"`
```ts
import { getBrowserLang } from '@ngneat/transloco';

getBrowserLang();
```

### `getBrowserCultureLang()`

Returns the culture language code name from the browser, e.g. ``"en-US"``
```ts
import { getBrowserCultureLang } from '@ngneat/transloco';

getBrowserCultureLang()
```

Commit message:

feat(transloco): 🎸 export translateObject as a proxy to the TranslocoService.translateObject method (#565)
feat(transloco): 🎸 export translateObject as a proxy to the TranslocoService.translateObject method

docs/docs/additional-functionality.mdx, after:

---
title: Additional Functionality
description: Additional Functionality | Transloco Angular i18n 
---

### Reference Other Keys

You can point to specific keys in other keys from the same translation file. For example:

```json title="en.json"
{
  "alert": "alert {{value}} english",
  "home": "home english",
  "fromList": "from {{home}}"
}
```

So the result of `service.translate('fromList')` will be: "from home english".

When using this feature inside a [scope](./lazy-load/scope-configuration), make sure you prefix the key reference with the scope name:

```json title="admin/en.json"
{
  "alert": "alert {{value}} english",
  "home": "home english",
  "fromList": "from {{admin.home}}"
}
```

So the result of `service.translate('admin.fromList')` will be: "from home english".

You can also pass parameters to the reused key. For example:

```json title="en.json"
{
  "hello": "Hello {{name}},",
  "greet": "{{hello}}, have a good day!"
}
```

So the result of `service.translate('greet', {name: 'John'})` will be: "Hello John, have a good day!".

**Watch out from creating circular referencing!** For Example:

```json title="en.json"
{
  "key": "{{key2}}",
  "key2": "{{key}}"
}
```

### `translate()`

You don't have to inject the service each time you need to translate a key. Transloco has an exported `translate()` function:

```ts
import { translate } from '@ngneat/transloco';

translate('hello');
```

:::important
Note that this function is a proxy to the [TranslocoService.translate](./translation-api#translate) method. 
It will not work if the service didn't initialize.  
In order to safely use this method, you are responsible for ensuring that the translation files have been successfully loaded by the time it's called.
:::

### `translateObject()`

You don't have to inject the service each time you need to translate an object. Transloco has an exported `translateObject()` function:

```ts
import { translateObject } from '@ngneat/transloco';

translateObject('some.object');
```

:::important
Note that this function is a proxy to the [TranslocoService.translateObject](./translation-api#translateObject) method. 
It will not work if the service didn't initialize.  
In order to safely use this method, you are responsible for ensuring that the translation files have been successfully loaded by the time it's called.
:::

### `getBrowserLang()`

Returns the language code name from the browser, e.g. `"en"`
```ts
import { getBrowserLang } from '@ngneat/transloco';

getBrowserLang();
```

### `getBrowserCultureLang()`

Returns the culture language code name from the browser, e.g. ``"en-US"``
```ts
import { getBrowserCultureLang } from '@ngneat/transloco';

getBrowserCultureLang()
```
