docs/docs/transpiler.mdx, before:

---
title: The Transpiler
description: The Transpiler | Transloco Angular i18n
---

The transpiler is responsible for resolving the given value.  
For example, when given `Hello {{ key }}` the default transpiler will replace the dynamic variable `key` based on the given params, or in some cases, within the [translation object itself](./additional-functionality#reference-other-keys).

## Functional Transpiler

In addition to the default transpiler, Transloco also exposes the `FunctionalTranspiler` which allows you to implement function calls into your translation values. This way you can leverage Angular's DI power and make your translations even more flexible.

The `FunctionalTranspiler` is compatible with the `DefaultTranspiler`, therefore you can switch to the functional without worrying that it'll break your current translations. 

:::note
Switching back to the default transpiler will require you to remove all the functional syntax.
:::

To enable this transpiler, add the following provider in your `TranslocoRootModule`:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { FunctionalTranspiler, TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER } from '@ngneat/transloco';

@NgModule({
  ...
  providers: [{
    provide: TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER,
    useClass: FunctionalTranspiler
  }]
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

### Usage

In order to use a function in the translation, we need to provide it to the transpiler.  
We do so by creating a new class that implements the `TranslocoTranspilerFunction` interface.
  
For example, let's say we want to display different texts, based on whether the user is exposed to a specific feature or not:

```ts title="has-feature-flag.ts"
import { FFService } from './feature-flag.service';
import { TranslocoTranspilerFunction } from '@ngneat/transloco';

class FeatureFlagResolver implements TranslocoTranspilerFunction {
  constructor(private featureFlagService: FFService) {}
  
  transpile(...args: string[]): any {
    const [flagName, trueValue, falseValue] = args;
    
    return this.featureFlagService.hasFF(flagName) ? trueValue : falseValue;
  }
}
```
As you can see, the `transpile` function can accept any number of arguments; you're the one who defines which arguments will be passed. In my case I'm passing three:
* The feature flag's name.
* The value I want to present in case the user has the flag.
* The value I want to present in case the user doesn't have the flag.

Now we will add this transpiler function to the `TranslocoRootModule` providers:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { FunctionalTranspiler, TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER } from '@ngneat/transloco';
import { FeatureFlagResolver } from './has-feature-flag';

@NgModule({
  ...
  providers: [{
    provide: TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER,
    useClass: FunctionalTranspiler
  },
  {
    provide: 'hasFeatureFlag', // ====> The function name used in the translation
    useClass: FeatureFlagResolver
  }],
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

The functional syntax is very similar to calling a regular function, here is an example:

```json title="en.json"
{
  "title": "[[ hasFeatureFlag(newDashboards, has flag, missing flag) ]]",
}
```

In this case, we are checking if the user has the `newDashboard` flag, and in case he does, we want to display `'has flag'`; otherwise, we will display `'missing flag'`.

### Usage Notes 

If the function returns a string that includes the interpolation syntax (`{{value}}`), the transpiler will replace it with the `params` or [other keys references](./additional-functionality#reference-other-keys) just like the default transpiler does.

If your function param needs to include a comma, you need to escape it:
```json title="en.json"
{
  "title": "[[ someFunc(Hello {{user}}\\, welcome ,...) ]]",
}
```
`'Hello {{user}}, welcome'` will be the first param passed.

## Custom Transpiler

You can also provide a custom transpiler by creating a class that implements the `TranslocoTranspiler` interface.

```ts
import { TranslocoTranspiler } from '@ngneat/transloco';

export class CustomTranspiler implements TranslocoTranspiler {
  transpile(value: any, params, translation: Translation) {
    return ...;
  }
}

export const customTranspiler = {
  provide: TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER,
  useClass: CustomTranspiler
}
```

Commit message:

feat: 🎸 Add interpolation to configuration (#330)
* feat: 🎸 Add RexExTranspiler

* refactor: 💡 Removed RegExTranspiler in favor of configuration

* refactor: 💡 Removed RegExp as transpilation option

* refactor: 💡 Moved wrapParam to testDefaultBehaviour scope

* fix: 🐛 MessageFormatTranspiler should use  TranslocoConfig

* refactor: 💡 removed unused const in spec

docs/docs/transpiler.mdx, after:

---
title: The Transpiler
description: The Transpiler | Transloco Angular i18n
---

The transpiler is responsible for resolving the given value.  
For example, when given `Hello {{ key }}` the default transpiler will replace the dynamic variable `key` based on the given params, or in some cases, within the [translation object itself](./additional-functionality#reference-other-keys).

## DefaultTranspiler
The default transpiler can be configured with custom interpolation start and end markings to match message parameters.

To configure the `DefaultTranspiler` interpolation markings you must provide a Transloco config with the [interpolation](./config-options#interpolation) property set. 

## Functional Transpiler

In addition to the default transpiler, Transloco also exposes the `FunctionalTranspiler` which allows you to implement function calls into your translation values. This way you can leverage Angular's DI power and make your translations even more flexible.

The `FunctionalTranspiler` is compatible with the `DefaultTranspiler`, therefore you can switch to the functional without worrying that it'll break your current translations. 

:::note
Switching back to the default transpiler will require you to remove all the functional syntax.
:::

To enable this transpiler, add the following provider in your `TranslocoRootModule`:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { FunctionalTranspiler, TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER } from '@ngneat/transloco';

@NgModule({
  ...
  providers: [{
    provide: TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER,
    useClass: FunctionalTranspiler
  }]
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

### Usage

In order to use a function in the translation, we need to provide it to the transpiler.  
We do so by creating a new class that implements the `TranslocoTranspilerFunction` interface.
  
For example, let's say we want to display different texts, based on whether the user is exposed to a specific feature or not:

```ts title="has-feature-flag.ts"
import { FFService } from './feature-flag.service';
import { TranslocoTranspilerFunction } from '@ngneat/transloco';

class FeatureFlagResolver implements TranslocoTranspilerFunction {
  constructor(private featureFlagService: FFService) {}
  
  transpile(...args: string[]): any {
    const [flagName, trueValue, falseValue] = args;
    
    return this.featureFlagService.hasFF(flagName) ? trueValue : falseValue;
  }
}
```
As you can see, the `transpile` function can accept any number of arguments; you're the one who defines which arguments will be passed. In my case I'm passing three:
* The feature flag's name.
* The value I want to present in case the user has the flag.
* The value I want to present in case the user doesn't have the flag.

Now we will add this transpiler function to the `TranslocoRootModule` providers:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { FunctionalTranspiler, TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER } from '@ngneat/transloco';
import { FeatureFlagResolver } from './has-feature-flag';

@NgModule({
  ...
  providers: [{
    provide: TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER,
    useClass: FunctionalTranspiler
  },
  {
    provide: 'hasFeatureFlag', // ====> The function name used in the translation
    useClass: FeatureFlagResolver
  }],
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

The functional syntax is very similar to calling a regular function, here is an example:

```json title="en.json"
{
  "title": "[[ hasFeatureFlag(newDashboards, has flag, missing flag) ]]",
}
```

In this case, we are checking if the user has the `newDashboard` flag, and in case he does, we want to display `'has flag'`; otherwise, we will display `'missing flag'`.

### Usage Notes 

If the function returns a string that includes the interpolation syntax (`{{value}}`), the transpiler will replace it with the `params` or [other keys references](./additional-functionality#reference-other-keys) just like the default transpiler does.

If your function param needs to include a comma, you need to escape it:
```json title="en.json"
{
  "title": "[[ someFunc(Hello {{user}}\\, welcome ,...) ]]",
}
```
`'Hello {{user}}, welcome'` will be the first param passed.

## Custom Transpiler

You can also provide a custom transpiler by creating a class that implements the `TranslocoTranspiler` interface.

```ts
import { TranslocoTranspiler } from '@ngneat/transloco';

export class CustomTranspiler implements TranslocoTranspiler {
  transpile(value: any, params, translation: Translation) {
    return ...;
  }
}

export const customTranspiler = {
  provide: TRANSLOCO_TRANSPILER,
  useClass: CustomTranspiler
}
```
