docs/docs/translation-in-template.mdx, before:

---
id: translation-in-the-template
title: Translation in The Template
description: Translation in The Template | Transloco Angular i18n
---

## Structural Directive

Using a structural directive is the **recommended** approach. It's DRY and efficient, as it creates one subscription per template:

```html title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t">
  <p>{{ t('title') }}</p>

  <comp [title]="t('title')"></comp>
</ng-container>
```

Note that the `t` function is **memoized**. It means that given the same key it will return the result directly from the cache.

We can pass a `params` object as the second parameter:

```html title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t">
  <p>{{ t('name', { name: 'Transloco' }) }}</p>
</ng-container>
```

```json title="en.json"
{
  "name": "My name is {{name}}"
}
```

We can instruct the directive to use a `different` language in our template:
```html {1} title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t; lang: 'es'">
  <p>{{ t('title') }}</p>
</ng-container>
```

This will translate each key based on the `Spanish` language translation file.

### Utilizing the read input
We can use the `read` input in the structural directive to get translations of a particular nested (including deeply nested) property.

Let's say we need to use the `dashboard` scope all over the template. Given this translation file:
```json title="en.json"
{
  "foo": "Foo",
  "bar": "Bar",
  "dashboard": {
    "title": "Dashboard Title",
    "desc": "Dashboard Desc"
  }
}
```

we can write:

```html {1} title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t; read: 'dashboard'">
  <p>{{ t('title') }}</p>
</ng-container>
```

without having to repeat the `dashboard` key in each translation. Under the hood, it will do the following for you:
```html title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t;">
  <h1>{{ t('dashboard.title') }}</h1>
  <p>{{ t('dashboard.desc') }}</p>
</ng-container>
```

## Pipe
The second option we have is to use the `transloco` pipe:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span>{{ 'home' | transloco }}</span>
```

Use it with `params`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span>{{ 'alert' | transloco: { value: dynamic } }}</span>
```

Use it with `inputs`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span [attr.alt]="'hello' | transloco">Attribute</span>
<span [title]="'hello' | transloco">Property</span>
```

Use it with a different `language`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span>{{ 'alert' | transloco:params:'es' }}</span>
```

## Attribute Directive
The last option we have is to use `transloco` attribute directive:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span transloco="home"></span>
```

Use it with `params`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span transloco="alert" [translocoParams]="{ value: dynamic }"></span>
```

Use it with a different `language`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span transloco="home" translocoLang="es"></span>
```

Commit message:

feat(transloco): 🎸 introduce prefix input
Introduce the prefix input and deprecate the read input

docs/docs/translation-in-template.mdx, after:

---
id: translation-in-the-template
title: Translation in The Template
description: Translation in The Template | Transloco Angular i18n
---

## Structural Directive

Using a structural directive is the **recommended** approach. It's DRY and efficient, as it creates one subscription per template:

```html title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t">
  <p>{{ t('title') }}</p>

  <comp [title]="t('title')"></comp>
</ng-container>
```

Note that the `t` function is **memoized**. It means that given the same key it will return the result directly from the cache.

We can pass a `params` object as the second parameter:

```html title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t">
  <p>{{ t('name', { name: 'Transloco' }) }}</p>
</ng-container>
```

```json title="en.json"
{
  "name": "My name is {{name}}"
}
```

We can instruct the directive to use a `different` language in our template:
```html {1} title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t; lang: 'es'">
  <p>{{ t('title') }}</p>
</ng-container>
```

This will translate each key based on the `Spanish` language translation file.

### Utilizing the `prefix` input
:::important
This input was previously named `read` and was renamed to `prefix` starting v7.1.0.<br/>
The `read` input is deprecated and will be removed in v8.
:::
We can use the `prefix` input in the structural directive to get translations of a particular nested (including deeply nested) property.

Let's say we need to use the `dashboard` scope all over the template. Given this translation file:
```json title="en.json"
{
  "foo": "Foo",
  "bar": "Bar",
  "dashboard": {
    "title": "Dashboard Title",
    "desc": "Dashboard Desc"
  }
}
```

we can write:

```html {1} title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t; prefix: 'dashboard'">
  <p>{{ t('title') }}</p>
</ng-container>
```

without having to repeat the `dashboard` key in each translation. Under the hood, it will do the following for you:
```html title="home.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t;">
  <h1>{{ t('dashboard.title') }}</h1>
  <p>{{ t('dashboard.desc') }}</p>
</ng-container>
```

## Pipe
The second option we have is to use the `transloco` pipe:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span>{{ 'home' | transloco }}</span>
```

Use it with `params`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span>{{ 'alert' | transloco: { value: dynamic } }}</span>
```

Use it with `inputs`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span [attr.alt]="'hello' | transloco">Attribute</span>
<span [title]="'hello' | transloco">Property</span>
```

Use it with a different `language`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span>{{ 'alert' | transloco:params:'es' }}</span>
```

## Attribute Directive
The last option we have is to use `transloco` attribute directive:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span transloco="home"></span>
```

Use it with `params`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span transloco="alert" [translocoParams]="{ value: dynamic }"></span>
```

Use it with a different `language`:
```html title="home.component.html"
<span transloco="home" translocoLang="es"></span>
```
