ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
PLEASE HELP US PROCESS GITHUB ISSUES FASTER BY PROVIDING THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION.

ISSUES MISSING IMPORTANT INFORMATION MAY BE CLOSED WITHOUT INVESTIGATION.
-->

## I'm submitting a...

<!-- Check one of the following options with "x" -->
<pre><code>
[ ] Regression (a behavior that used to work and stopped working in a new release)
[ ] Bug report  <!-- Please search GitHub for a similar issue or PR before submitting -->
[ ] Performance issue
[ ] Feature request
[ ] Documentation issue or request
[ ] Support request
[ ] Other... Please describe:
</code></pre>

## Current behavior

<!-- Describe how the issue manifests. -->

## Expected behavior

<!-- Describe what the desired behavior would be. -->

## Minimal reproduction of the problem with instructions

For bug reports please provide the _STEPS TO REPRODUCE_ and if possible a _MINIMAL DEMO_ of the problem via
https://stackblitz.com or similar

## What is the motivation / use case for changing the behavior?

<!-- Describe the motivation or the concrete use case. -->

## Environment

<pre><code>
Angular version: X.Y.Z
<!-- Check whether this is still an issue in the most recent Angular version -->

Browser:
- [ ] Chrome (desktop) version XX
- [ ] Chrome (Android) version XX
- [ ] Chrome (iOS) version XX
- [ ] Firefox version XX
- [ ] Safari (desktop) version XX
- [ ] Safari (iOS) version XX
- [ ] IE version XX
- [ ] Edge version XX
 
For Tooling issues:
- Node version: XX  <!-- run `node --version` -->
- Platform:  <!-- Mac, Linux, Windows -->

Others:
<!-- Anything else relevant?  Operating system version, IDE, package manager, HTTP server, ... -->
</code></pre>

Commit message:

docs: ✏️ add stackblitz example to the issue-template

ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
PLEASE HELP US PROCESS GITHUB ISSUES FASTER BY PROVIDING THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION.

ISSUES MISSING IMPORTANT INFORMATION MAY BE CLOSED WITHOUT INVESTIGATION.
-->

## I'm submitting a...

<!-- Check one of the following options with "x" -->
<pre><code>
[ ] Regression (a behavior that used to work and stopped working in a new release)
[ ] Bug report  <!-- Please search GitHub for a similar issue or PR before submitting -->
[ ] Performance issue
[ ] Feature request
[ ] Documentation issue or request
[ ] Support request
[ ] Other... Please describe:
</code></pre>

## Current behavior

<!-- Describe how the issue manifests. -->

## Expected behavior

<!-- Describe what the desired behavior would be. -->

## Minimal reproduction of the problem with instructions

For bug reports please provide the _STEPS TO REPRODUCE_ and if possible a _MINIMAL DEMO_ of the problem, for that you could use our [stackblitz example](https://stackblitz.com/edit/transloco-example)

## What is the motivation / use case for changing the behavior?

<!-- Describe the motivation or the concrete use case. -->

## Environment

<pre><code>
Angular version: X.Y.Z
<!-- Check whether this is still an issue in the most recent Angular version -->

Browser:
- [ ] Chrome (desktop) version XX
- [ ] Chrome (Android) version XX
- [ ] Chrome (iOS) version XX
- [ ] Firefox version XX
- [ ] Safari (desktop) version XX
- [ ] Safari (iOS) version XX
- [ ] IE version XX
- [ ] Edge version XX
 
For Tooling issues:
- Node version: XX  <!-- run `node --version` -->
- Platform:  <!-- Mac, Linux, Windows -->

Others:
<!-- Anything else relevant?  Operating system version, IDE, package manager, HTTP server, ... -->
</code></pre>
