docs/docs/getting-started/config-options.mdx, before:

---
id: config-options
title: Config Options
description: Config Options | Transloco Angular i18n
---

Below is a list of the `config` options and their usages:

### `reRenderOnLangChange`
Applications that don't allow the user to change the language in runtime (i.e., from a dropdown), should leave it `false`.
It can save on memory by rendering the view once and unsubscribing from the language changes event (defaults to `false`):

```ts
translocoConfig({
  reRenderOnLangChange: boolean
})
```

### `defaultLang`
Sets the default language: (defaults to `en`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  defaultLang: 'en'
})
```

### `fallbackLang`
 Sets the default language/s to use as a fallback. See the `TranslocoFallbackStrategy` section if you need to customize it:
```ts
translocoConfig({
  fallbackLang: 'en',
  fallbackLang: ['en', 'ru']
})
```

### `failedRetries`
 How many time should Transloco retry to load translation files, in case of a load failure (defaults to 2):
```ts
translocoConfig({
  failedRetries: 1
})
```

### `prodMode`
 Whether the application runs in production mode: (defaults to `false`)
 When enabled, Transloco will disable all console warnings.

```ts
import { isDevMode } from '@angular/core';

translocoConfig({
  prodMode: !isDevMode()
})
```

### `availableLangs`
 The available languages in your application:
```ts
translocoConfig({
  availableLangs: ['en', 'es']
})
```

### `missingHandler.allowEmpty`
Whether to allow empty values: (defaults to `false`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  missingHandler: {
    allowEmpty: true
  }
})
```

### `missingHandler.useFallbackTranslation`
Whether to use the fallback language for missing keys or values: (defaults to `false`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  fallbackLang: 'en',
  missingHandler: {
    // It will use the first language set in the `fallbackLang` property
    useFallbackTranslation: true
  }
})
```

### `missingHandler.logMissingKey`
Whether to `console.warn` a missing key: (defaults to `true`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  missingHandler: {
    logMissingKey: false
  }
})
```

### `flatten.aot`
Check the optimization plugin:
```ts
import {isDevMode} from "@angular/core";

translocoConfig({
  flatten: {
    aot: !isDevMode()
  }
})
```

### `interpolation`
The start and end markings for parameters: (defaults to `['{{', '}}']`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  // This will enable you to specify parameters as such: `"Hello <<<value>>>"`
  interpolation: ['<<<', '>>>']
})
```

Commit message:

feat(transloco): 🎸 allow to omit available languages
Currently the available languages need to be set, otherwise the
translated values won't be returned. With this change, the translation
will also work when omitting the availableLangs config, or setting it to
null.

✅ Closes: #653

docs/docs/getting-started/config-options.mdx, after:

---
id: config-options
title: Config Options
description: Config Options | Transloco Angular i18n
---

Below is a list of the `config` options and their usages:

### `reRenderOnLangChange`
Applications that don't allow the user to change the language in runtime (i.e., from a dropdown), should leave it `false`.
It can save on memory by rendering the view once and unsubscribing from the language changes event (defaults to `false`):

```ts
translocoConfig({
  reRenderOnLangChange: boolean
})
```

### `defaultLang`
Sets the default language: (defaults to `en`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  defaultLang: 'en'
})
```

### `fallbackLang`
 Sets the default language/s to use as a fallback. See the `TranslocoFallbackStrategy` section if you need to customize it:
```ts
translocoConfig({
  fallbackLang: 'en',
  fallbackLang: ['en', 'ru']
})
```

### `failedRetries`
 How many time should Transloco retry to load translation files, in case of a load failure (defaults to 2):
```ts
translocoConfig({
  failedRetries: 1
})
```

### `prodMode`
 Whether the application runs in production mode: (defaults to `false`)
 When enabled, Transloco will disable all console warnings.

```ts
import { isDevMode } from '@angular/core';

translocoConfig({
  prodMode: !isDevMode()
})
```

### `availableLangs`
 The available languages in your application:
```ts
translocoConfig({
  availableLangs: ['en', 'es']
})
```
When the active language is not included in the `availableLangs`, the translations of this language will not be returned.
You can omit this option or set it to `null`, in this case the translations will be returned for any language, if available.

### `missingHandler.allowEmpty`
Whether to allow empty values: (defaults to `false`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  missingHandler: {
    allowEmpty: true
  }
})
```

### `missingHandler.useFallbackTranslation`
Whether to use the fallback language for missing keys or values: (defaults to `false`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  fallbackLang: 'en',
  missingHandler: {
    // It will use the first language set in the `fallbackLang` property
    useFallbackTranslation: true
  }
})
```

### `missingHandler.logMissingKey`
Whether to `console.warn` a missing key: (defaults to `true`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  missingHandler: {
    logMissingKey: false
  }
})
```

### `flatten.aot`
Check the optimization plugin:
```ts
import {isDevMode} from "@angular/core";

translocoConfig({
  flatten: {
    aot: !isDevMode()
  }
})
```

### `interpolation`
The start and end markings for parameters: (defaults to `['{{', '}}']`)
```ts
translocoConfig({
  // This will enable you to specify parameters as such: `"Hello <<<value>>>"`
  interpolation: ['<<<', '>>>']
})
```
