docs/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

---
id: installation
title: Installation
description: Installation | Transloco Angular i18n
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Install the library using Angular CLI:
```bash
ng add @ngneat/transloco
```

For more information, see the [ng-add](../schematics/ng-add) command page.

<img className="gif" src={useBaseUrl('/img/installation.gif')} />

As part of the installation process you'll be presented with questions; Once you answer them, everything you need will automatically be created for you. Let's take a closer look at the generated files:

#### Transloco loader

A default http loader implementation to fetch the translation files:

```ts
import { inject, Injectable } from "@angular/core";
import { Translation, TranslocoLoader } from "@ngneat/transloco";
import { HttpClient } from "@angular/common/http";

@Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' })
export class TranslocoHttpLoader implements TranslocoLoader {
    private http = inject(HttpClient);

    getTranslation(lang: string) {
        return this.http.get<Translation>(`/assets/i18n/${lang}.json`);
    }
}

```

:::note

When you deploy your application and Transloco is unable to load your language files it might because you need to use a relative path:

```ts
getTranslation(langPath: string) {
  return this.http.get(`./assets/i18n/${langPath}.json`);
}
```
:::

#### Translation JSON files

Transloco creates boilerplate files for the requested languages with an empty JSON:

```json title="assets/i18n/{en, es}.json"
{}
```

<Tabs queryString="app-type">
<TabItem value="standalone" label="Standalone">

The command will add the `provideTransloco` and `provideHttpClient` to your app providers:

```ts title="app.config.ts"
import { ApplicationConfig, isDevMode } from '@angular/core';
import { provideHttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
import { provideTransloco } from '@ngneat/transloco';

import { TranslocoHttpLoader } from './transloco-loader.ts';

export const appConfig: ApplicationConfig = {
    providers: [
        provideHttpClient(),
        provideTransloco({
            config: {
                availableLangs: ['en', 'es'],
                defaultLang: 'en',
                // Remove this option if your application doesn't support changing language in runtime.
                reRenderOnLangChange: true,
                prodMode: !isDevMode(),
            },
            loader: TranslocoHttpLoader
        })
    ]
};

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ng-module" label="NgModule">

When added to a module based application a new `transloco-root.module.ts` which exposes an Angular module with a default configuration, and inject it into the `AppModule`:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import {
    provideTransloco,
    TranslocoModule
} from '@ngneat/transloco';
import { Injectable, isDevMode, NgModule } from '@angular/core';

import { TranslocoHttpLoader } from './transloco-loader';

@NgModule({
    exports: [ TranslocoModule ],
    providers: [
        provideTransloco({
            config: {
                availableLangs: ['en', 'es'],
                defaultLang: 'en',
                // Remove this option if your application doesn't support changing language in runtime.
                reRenderOnLangChange: true,
                prodMode: !isDevMode(),
            },
            loader: TranslocoHttpLoader
        }),
    ],
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}

```

:::note
You should import the `TranslocoRootModule` once in your root module, and use `TranslocoModule` in any other module.
:::

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

And that's it! Now we are ready to use it in our project.

Commit message:

fix(transloco): 🐛 scope schematics
✅ Closes: #558

docs/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

---
id: installation
title: Installation
description: Installation | Transloco Angular i18n
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Install the library using Angular CLI:
```bash
ng add @ngneat/transloco
# On an nx workspace
nx g @ngneat/transloco:ng-add
```

For more information, see the [ng-add](../schematics/ng-add) command page.

<img className="gif" src={useBaseUrl('/img/installation.gif')} />

As part of the installation process you'll be presented with questions; Once you answer them, everything you need will automatically be created for you. Let's take a closer look at the generated files:

#### Transloco loader

A default http loader implementation to fetch the translation files:

```ts
import { inject, Injectable } from "@angular/core";
import { Translation, TranslocoLoader } from "@ngneat/transloco";
import { HttpClient } from "@angular/common/http";

@Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' })
export class TranslocoHttpLoader implements TranslocoLoader {
    private http = inject(HttpClient);

    getTranslation(lang: string) {
        return this.http.get<Translation>(`/assets/i18n/${lang}.json`);
    }
}

```

:::note

When you deploy your application and Transloco is unable to load your language files it might because you need to use a relative path:

```ts
getTranslation(langPath: string) {
  return this.http.get(`./assets/i18n/${langPath}.json`);
}
```
:::

#### Translation JSON files

Transloco creates boilerplate files for the requested languages with an empty JSON:

```json title="assets/i18n/{en, es}.json"
{}
```

<Tabs queryString="app-type">
<TabItem value="standalone" label="Standalone">

The command will add the `provideTransloco` and `provideHttpClient` to your app providers:

```ts title="app.config.ts"
import { ApplicationConfig, isDevMode } from '@angular/core';
import { provideHttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
import { provideTransloco } from '@ngneat/transloco';

import { TranslocoHttpLoader } from './transloco-loader.ts';

export const appConfig: ApplicationConfig = {
    providers: [
        provideHttpClient(),
        provideTransloco({
            config: {
                availableLangs: ['en', 'es'],
                defaultLang: 'en',
                // Remove this option if your application doesn't support changing language in runtime.
                reRenderOnLangChange: true,
                prodMode: !isDevMode(),
            },
            loader: TranslocoHttpLoader
        })
    ]
};

```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ng-module" label="NgModule">

When added to a module based application a new `transloco-root.module.ts` which exposes an Angular module with a default configuration, and inject it into the `AppModule`:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import {
    provideTransloco,
    TranslocoModule
} from '@ngneat/transloco';
import { Injectable, isDevMode, NgModule } from '@angular/core';

import { TranslocoHttpLoader } from './transloco-loader';

@NgModule({
    exports: [ TranslocoModule ],
    providers: [
        provideTransloco({
            config: {
                availableLangs: ['en', 'es'],
                defaultLang: 'en',
                // Remove this option if your application doesn't support changing language in runtime.
                reRenderOnLangChange: true,
                prodMode: !isDevMode(),
            },
            loader: TranslocoHttpLoader
        }),
    ],
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}

```

:::note
You should import the `TranslocoRootModule` once in your root module, and use `TranslocoModule` in any other module.
:::

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

And that's it! Now we are ready to use it in our project.
