docs/docs/plugins/locale.mdx, before:

---
title: Locale L10N
description: Plugins - Locale L10N | Transloco Angular i18n
---

This plugin provides localization(l10n) support for Transloco.

> Localization refers to the adaptation of a product, application or document content to meet the language, cultural and other requirements of a specific target market (a locale).

## Installation

```bash
npm i @ngneat/transloco-locale
```

## Setup
Inject `TranslocoLocaleModule` along with `TranslocoModule` into `TranslocoRootModule`:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { TranslocoLocaleModule } from '@ngneat/transloco-locale';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    TranslocoLocaleModule.forRoot()
  ],
  ...
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

## Localization Pipes
The library provides localization API provided by pipes or from a service, base on the native Javascript's [API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl).


### Date Pipe
Transform a date into the locale's date format.

The date expression could be: a Date object, a number (milliseconds since UTC epoch), or an [ISO](https://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime) string.

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<!--9/10/2019-->
<span> {{ date | translocoDate }} </span>
<!-- Sep 10, 2019, 10:46:12 PM-->
<span>
  {{ date | translocoDate: { dateStyle: 'medium', timeStyle: 'medium' } }}
</span>
<!-- 7:40:32 PM Coordinated-->
<span>
  {{ date | translocoDate: { timeZone: 'UTC', timeStyle: 'full' } }}
</span>
<!-- Jan 1, 1970-->
<span>
  {{ 1 | translocoDate: { dateStyle: 'medium' } }}
</span>
<!-- Feb 8, 2019-->
<span>
  {{ '2019-02-08' | translocoDate: { dateStyle: 'medium' } }}
</span>
```

### Currency Pipe

Transform a given number into the locale's currency format.

The library comes out of the box with locale currency mapping, so once the locale is change the currency will automatically display the right currency.
The currency mapping could be customise if needed through the [config](#configuration-options), and could be provided by `LOCALE_CURRENCY_MAPPING` token.

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<!--$1,000,000.00-->
<span> {{ 1000000 | translocoCurrency }} </span>
<!--1,000,000.00 US dollars-->
<span>
  {{ 1000000 | translocoCurrency: 'name' }}
</span>
<!--$1,000,000-->
<span>
  {{ 1000000 | translocoCurrency: 'symbol' : { minimumFractionDigits: 0 } }}
</span>
```

### Decimal Pipe

Transform a given number into current locale's decimal number format.

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<!--1,234,567,890-->
<span>
  {{ 1234567890 | translocoDecimal }}
</span>
<!--1234567890-->
<span>
  {{ 1234567890 | translocoDecimal: {useGrouping: false} }}
</span>
```

### Percent Pipe

Transform a given number into current locale's percent number format.

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<!--100%-->
<span> 1 | translocoPercent </span>
<!--100%-->
<span> "1" | translocoPercent </span>
```

## Setting Locale

The library provides three different ways to set the locale.

### Translation file names

Using locale format for the translation files will automatically declare the locale on `langChanges$` event:

```
├─ i18n/
   ├─ en-US.json
   ├─ en-GB.json
   ├─ es-ES.json
```

### Language Locale Mapping:

Users who don't have more than one locale per language
could provide a language to locale mapping object using the [config's](#configuration-options) `langToLocaleMapping`:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { TranslocoLocaleModule } from '@ngneat/transloco-locale';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    TranslocoLocaleModule.forRoot({
      langToLocaleMapping: {
        en: 'en-US',
        es: 'es-ES'
      }
    })
  ],
  ...
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

### Manually Setting Locale:

The third option in manually setting the locale, this could be done by calling `setLocale` method from `localeService`:

```ts title="app.component.ts"
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private service: TranslocoLocaleService) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    this.service.setLocale('en-US');
  }
}
```

## Configuration Options

Let's go over each one of the `config` options:

- `localeConfig?`: Declare the default configuration of the locale's formatting. A general configuration could be set using the `global` property, for a configuration by locale use `localeBased` property (default value determine by the native [Javascript's API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl)).
- `defaultLocale?`: The default locale formatted in [BCP 47](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47) (default value: `en-US`),
- `langToLocaleMapping?`: A key value `object` that maps Transloco language to it's Locale (default value: `{}`).
- `localeToCurrencyMapping?`: A key value `object` that maps the Locale to it's currency (formatted in [ISO 4217](https://www.iso.org/iso-4217-currency-codes.html)) (the library provide a default value with all of the existing mapping).

## Locale Format Options

There are two types of formatting options, one for `date` and one for `number`.

The formatted options could be declared in three levels

1. In the module's configuration (as mentioned above):

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { TranslocoLocaleModule } from '@ngneat/transloco-locale';

const globalFormatConfig = {
  date: {
    dateStyle: 'long',
    timeStyle: 'long'
  }
};

const esESFormatConfig = {
  date: {
    timeStyle: 'medium'
  },
  currency: {
    minimumFractionDigits: 0
  }
};

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    TranslocoLocaleModule.forRoot({
      localeConfig: {
        global: globalFormatConfig,
        localeBased: {
          'es-ES': esESFormatConfig
        }
      }
    })
  ],
  ...
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

2. It could be set in the component's providers using `LOCALE_CONFIG` token:

```ts title="my-comp.component.html"
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  templateUrl: './my-comp.component.html',
  providers: [
    {
      provide: LOCALE_CONFIG,
      useValue: localeConfig
    }
  ]
})
export class MyComponent {}
```

3. We can pass it to each [pipe](#localization-pipes) in the HTML template:

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<span>
  {{ date | translocoDate: { dateStyle: 'medium', timeStyle: 'medium' } }}
</span>

<span>
  {{ number | translocoDecimal: {useGrouping: false} }}
</span>
```

Note the format option of the global, locale's format and the one's being passed in the template, will be merged. While the template is the stronger one and then the locale and the global.

## Number Format Options

- `useGrouping`- Whether to use grouping separators, such as thousands separators or thousand/lakh/crore separators. Possible values are true and false; the (default is true).
- `minimumIntegerDigits`- The minimum number of integer digits to use. Possible values are from 1 to 21 (default is 1).
- `minimumFractionDigits`- The minimum number of fraction digits to use. Possible values are from 0 to 20 (default is 0).
- `maximumFractionDigits`- The maximum number of fraction digits to use. Possible values are from 0 to 20 (default is 3).
- `minimumSignificantDigits`- The minimum number of significant digits to use. Possible values are from 1 to 21 (default is 1).
- `maximumSignificantDigits`- The maximum number of significant digits to use. Possible values are from 1 to 21 (default is 21).

## Date Format Options

- `dateStyle` - The date formatting style.
- `timeStyle` - The time formatting style.
- `timeZone` - The time zone to use. The only value implementations must recognize is "UTC"; the default is the runtime's default time zone. Implementations may also recognize the time zone names of the [IANA](https://www.iana.org/time-zones) time zone database, such as "Asia/Shanghai", "Asia/Kolkata", "America/New_York".

## Service API

- `localeChanges$` - Observable of the active locale.
- `localizeDate()` - Transform a date into a locale's date format.
- `localizeNumber()` - Transform a number into the locale's number format according to the number type.
- `getLocale` - Gets the active locale.
- `setLocale` - Sets the active locale.
- `getCurrencySymbol` - Gets the currency symbol for a given locale. If no locale is specified the currently active one is used.

```ts
translocoLocaleService.localeChanges$.subscribe(activeLocale => ...)

translocoLocaleService.localizeNumber(1234567890, 'decimal') // 1,234,567,890
translocoLocaleService.localizeNumber(0.5, 'percent') // 50%
translocoLocaleService.localizeNumber(1000, 'currency') // $1,000.00

const locale = translocoLocaleService.getLocale();
translocoLocaleService.setLocale('en-US')

translocoLocaleService.getCurrencySymbol() // $
```

## Localization Transformer
In some cases you might want to customize the localization transformation, to achieve that you could provide your own localization transformer class.

There are two types of transformers for date and number:

```ts title="custom-transformer.ts"
import { DefaultDateTransformer, DefaultNumberTransformer } from '@ngneat/transloco-locale';

export class CustomDateTransformer extends DefaultDateTransformer {
  public transform(date: Date, locale: Locale, options: DateFormatOptions): string {
    return ...

    // Fallback to default transformer
    return super.transform(date, locale, options);
  }
}

export class CustomNumberTransformer extends DefaultNumberTransformer {
  public transform(
    value: number | string,
    type: NumberTypes,
    locale: string,
    options: Intl.NumberFormatOptions
  ): string {
    return ...
    
    // Fallback to default transformer
    return super.transform(value, type, locale, options);
  }
}

export const customTransformers = [
  {
    provide: TRANSLOCO_DATE_TRANSFORMER,
    useClass: CustomDateTransformer
  },
  {
    provide: TRANSLOCO_NUMBER_TRANSFORMER,
    useClass: CustomNumberTransformer
  },
];
```

Commit message:

feat(transloco-locale): add sign display number format option

docs/docs/plugins/locale.mdx, after:

---
title: Locale L10N
description: Plugins - Locale L10N | Transloco Angular i18n
---

This plugin provides localization(l10n) support for Transloco.

> Localization refers to the adaptation of a product, application or document content to meet the language, cultural and other requirements of a specific target market (a locale).

## Installation

```bash
npm i @ngneat/transloco-locale
```

## Setup
Inject `TranslocoLocaleModule` along with `TranslocoModule` into `TranslocoRootModule`:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { TranslocoLocaleModule } from '@ngneat/transloco-locale';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    TranslocoLocaleModule.forRoot()
  ],
  ...
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

## Localization Pipes
The library provides localization API provided by pipes or from a service, base on the native Javascript's [API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl).


### Date Pipe
Transform a date into the locale's date format.

The date expression could be: a Date object, a number (milliseconds since UTC epoch), or an [ISO](https://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime) string.

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<!--9/10/2019-->
<span> {{ date | translocoDate }} </span>
<!-- Sep 10, 2019, 10:46:12 PM-->
<span>
  {{ date | translocoDate: { dateStyle: 'medium', timeStyle: 'medium' } }}
</span>
<!-- 7:40:32 PM Coordinated-->
<span>
  {{ date | translocoDate: { timeZone: 'UTC', timeStyle: 'full' } }}
</span>
<!-- Jan 1, 1970-->
<span>
  {{ 1 | translocoDate: { dateStyle: 'medium' } }}
</span>
<!-- Feb 8, 2019-->
<span>
  {{ '2019-02-08' | translocoDate: { dateStyle: 'medium' } }}
</span>
```

### Currency Pipe

Transform a given number into the locale's currency format.

The library comes out of the box with locale currency mapping, so once the locale is change the currency will automatically display the right currency.
The currency mapping could be customise if needed through the [config](#configuration-options), and could be provided by `LOCALE_CURRENCY_MAPPING` token.

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<!--$1,000,000.00-->
<span> {{ 1000000 | translocoCurrency }} </span>
<!--1,000,000.00 US dollars-->
<span>
  {{ 1000000 | translocoCurrency: 'name' }}
</span>
<!--$1,000,000-->
<span>
  {{ 1000000 | translocoCurrency: 'symbol' : { minimumFractionDigits: 0 } }}
</span>
```

### Decimal Pipe

Transform a given number into current locale's decimal number format.

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<!--1,234,567,890-->
<span>
  {{ 1234567890 | translocoDecimal }}
</span>
<!--1234567890-->
<span>
  {{ 1234567890 | translocoDecimal: {useGrouping: false} }}
</span>
```

### Percent Pipe

Transform a given number into current locale's percent number format.

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<!--100%-->
<span> 1 | translocoPercent </span>
<!--100%-->
<span> "1" | translocoPercent </span>
```

## Setting Locale

The library provides three different ways to set the locale.

### Translation file names

Using locale format for the translation files will automatically declare the locale on `langChanges$` event:

```
├─ i18n/
   ├─ en-US.json
   ├─ en-GB.json
   ├─ es-ES.json
```

### Language Locale Mapping:

Users who don't have more than one locale per language
could provide a language to locale mapping object using the [config's](#configuration-options) `langToLocaleMapping`:

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { TranslocoLocaleModule } from '@ngneat/transloco-locale';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    TranslocoLocaleModule.forRoot({
      langToLocaleMapping: {
        en: 'en-US',
        es: 'es-ES'
      }
    })
  ],
  ...
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

### Manually Setting Locale:

The third option in manually setting the locale, this could be done by calling `setLocale` method from `localeService`:

```ts title="app.component.ts"
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private service: TranslocoLocaleService) {}

  ngOnInit() {
    this.service.setLocale('en-US');
  }
}
```

## Configuration Options

Let's go over each one of the `config` options:

- `localeConfig?`: Declare the default configuration of the locale's formatting. A general configuration could be set using the `global` property, for a configuration by locale use `localeBased` property (default value determine by the native [Javascript's API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl)).
- `defaultLocale?`: The default locale formatted in [BCP 47](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47) (default value: `en-US`),
- `langToLocaleMapping?`: A key value `object` that maps Transloco language to it's Locale (default value: `{}`).
- `localeToCurrencyMapping?`: A key value `object` that maps the Locale to it's currency (formatted in [ISO 4217](https://www.iso.org/iso-4217-currency-codes.html)) (the library provide a default value with all of the existing mapping).

## Locale Format Options

There are two types of formatting options, one for `date` and one for `number`.

The formatted options could be declared in three levels

1. In the module's configuration (as mentioned above):

```ts title="transloco-root.module.ts"
import { TranslocoLocaleModule } from '@ngneat/transloco-locale';

const globalFormatConfig = {
  date: {
    dateStyle: 'long',
    timeStyle: 'long'
  }
};

const esESFormatConfig = {
  date: {
    timeStyle: 'medium'
  },
  currency: {
    minimumFractionDigits: 0
  }
};

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    TranslocoLocaleModule.forRoot({
      localeConfig: {
        global: globalFormatConfig,
        localeBased: {
          'es-ES': esESFormatConfig
        }
      }
    })
  ],
  ...
})
export class TranslocoRootModule {}
```

2. It could be set in the component's providers using `LOCALE_CONFIG` token:

```ts title="my-comp.component.html"
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  templateUrl: './my-comp.component.html',
  providers: [
    {
      provide: LOCALE_CONFIG,
      useValue: localeConfig
    }
  ]
})
export class MyComponent {}
```

3. We can pass it to each [pipe](#localization-pipes) in the HTML template:

```html title="my-comp.component.html"
<span>
  {{ date | translocoDate: { dateStyle: 'medium', timeStyle: 'medium' } }}
</span>

<span>
  {{ number | translocoDecimal: {useGrouping: false} }}
</span>
```

Note the format option of the global, locale's format and the one's being passed in the template, will be merged. While the template is the stronger one and then the locale and the global.

## Number Format Options

- `useGrouping`- Whether to use grouping separators, such as thousands separators or thousand/lakh/crore separators. Possible values are true and false; the (default is true).
- `minimumIntegerDigits`- The minimum number of integer digits to use. Possible values are from 1 to 21 (default is 1).
- `minimumFractionDigits`- The minimum number of fraction digits to use. Possible values are from 0 to 20 (default is 0).
- `maximumFractionDigits`- The maximum number of fraction digits to use. Possible values are from 0 to 20 (default is 3).
- `minimumSignificantDigits`- The minimum number of significant digits to use. Possible values are from 1 to 21 (default is 1).
- `maximumSignificantDigits`- The maximum number of significant digits to use. Possible values are from 1 to 21 (default is 21).
- `signDisplay`- When to display the sign for the number. Possible values are "auto", "always", "exceptZero", "negative", "never" (default is "auto").

## Date Format Options

- `dateStyle` - The date formatting style.
- `timeStyle` - The time formatting style.
- `timeZone` - The time zone to use. The only value implementations must recognize is "UTC"; the default is the runtime's default time zone. Implementations may also recognize the time zone names of the [IANA](https://www.iana.org/time-zones) time zone database, such as "Asia/Shanghai", "Asia/Kolkata", "America/New_York".

## Service API

- `localeChanges$` - Observable of the active locale.
- `localizeDate()` - Transform a date into a locale's date format.
- `localizeNumber()` - Transform a number into the locale's number format according to the number type.
- `getLocale` - Gets the active locale.
- `setLocale` - Sets the active locale.
- `getCurrencySymbol` - Gets the currency symbol for a given locale. If no locale is specified the currently active one is used.

```ts
translocoLocaleService.localeChanges$.subscribe(activeLocale => ...)

translocoLocaleService.localizeNumber(1234567890, 'decimal') // 1,234,567,890
translocoLocaleService.localizeNumber(0.5, 'percent') // 50%
translocoLocaleService.localizeNumber(1000, 'currency') // $1,000.00

const locale = translocoLocaleService.getLocale();
translocoLocaleService.setLocale('en-US')

translocoLocaleService.getCurrencySymbol() // $
```

## Localization Transformer
In some cases you might want to customize the localization transformation, to achieve that you could provide your own localization transformer class.

There are two types of transformers for date and number:

```ts title="custom-transformer.ts"
import { DefaultDateTransformer, DefaultNumberTransformer } from '@ngneat/transloco-locale';

export class CustomDateTransformer extends DefaultDateTransformer {
  public transform(date: Date, locale: Locale, options: DateFormatOptions): string {
    return ...

    // Fallback to default transformer
    return super.transform(date, locale, options);
  }
}

export class CustomNumberTransformer extends DefaultNumberTransformer {
  public transform(
    value: number | string,
    type: NumberTypes,
    locale: string,
    options: Intl.NumberFormatOptions
  ): string {
    return ...
    
    // Fallback to default transformer
    return super.transform(value, type, locale, options);
  }
}

export const customTransformers = [
  {
    provide: TRANSLOCO_DATE_TRANSFORMER,
    useClass: CustomDateTransformer
  },
  {
    provide: TRANSLOCO_NUMBER_TRANSFORMER,
    useClass: CustomNumberTransformer
  },
];
```
