docs/docs/lazy-load/scope-configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Scope Configuration
description: Scope Configuration | Transloco Angular i18n
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::important
Note that scopes follow **Angular DI rules**. They only work when declared in a lazy load module, or a component's providers.
:::

Let's say we have a todos page and we want to create separate translation files for this page, and load them only when the user navigates there.
First, we need to create a `todos` folder (or whatever name you choose); In it, we create a translation file for each language we want to support:

```bash
├─ i18n/
   ├─ en.json
   ├─ es.json
   ├─ todos/
      ├─ en.json
      ├─ es.json
```

There are 3 levels of setting the translation scope:

## Lazy Module Providers

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="Standalone">

We can set it inside the _lazy route_ providers:

```ts title="todos.routes.ts"
import { Route } from '@angular/router';
import { provideTranslocoScope } from '@jsverse/transloco';

export const TODO_ROUTES: Route = {
  path: '',
  loadComponent: () =>
    import('./todos.component').then((TodosComponent) => TodosComponent),
  providers: [provideTranslocoScope('todos')],
};
```

We also can provide several scopes at once:

```ts title="core.module.ts"
import { Route } from '@angular/router';
import { provideTranslocoScope } from './transloco.providers';

export const TODO_ROUTES: Route = {
  path: '',
  loadComponent: () =>
    import('./todos.component').then((TodosComponent) => TodosComponent),
  providers: [
    provideTranslocoScope('todos', { scope: 'shared', alias: 'sharedAlias' }),
  ],
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="NgModule">

We can set it inside the _lazy module_ providers:

```ts title="todos.module.ts"
import { provideTranslocoScope } from '@jsverse/transloco';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: TodosComponent,
  },
];

@NgModule({
  declarations: [TodosComponent],
  providers: [provideTranslocoScope('todos')],
  imports: [RouterModule.forChild(routes), TranslocoModule],
})
export class TodosModule {}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Component's Providers

We can set it in a _component's providers_:

```ts title="todos.component.ts"
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  templateUrl: './my-comp.component.html',
  providers: [provideTranslocoScope('todos')],
})
export class MyComponent {}
```

## Inline Input

We can set the `scope` input in the `transloco` structural directive:

```ts {1} title="todos.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t; scope: 'todos';">
  <h1>{{ t('todos.keyFromTodos') }}</h1>
</ng-container>
```

Each one of these options tells Transloco to load the corresponding `scope` based on the active language and merge it under the scope namespace into the active language translation object.

For example, if the active language is `en`, it will load the `todos/en.json` file, and will set the translation to be the following:

```json
{
  "header": "",
  "login": "",
  "todos": {
    "submit": "",
    "title": ""
  }
}
```

Now we can access each one of the `todos` keys by using the `todos` namespace:

```html title="todos.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t">
  <h1>{{ t('todos.title') }}</h1>
</ng-container>

{{ 'todos.title' | transloco }}

<span transloco="todos.submit"></span>
```

## Scope's namespace

By default, the namespace will be the `scope` name (camel cased), but we can override it by providing custom `alias` name in the module/component `scope` provider:

```ts
provideTranslocoScope({ scope: 'todos', alias: 'customName' });
```

Now we can access it through `customName` instead of the original scope name (`todos` in our case):

```html title="todos.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t">
  <h1>{{ t('customName.title') }}</h1>
</ng-container>

{{ 'customName.title' | transloco }}

<span transloco="customName.submit"></span>
```

Commit message:

feat(transloco): add option to not change the casing of the provided scope

docs/docs/lazy-load/scope-configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Scope Configuration
description: Scope Configuration | Transloco Angular i18n
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::important
Note that scopes follow **Angular DI rules**. They only work when declared in a lazy load module, or a component's providers.
:::

Let's say we have a todos page and we want to create separate translation files for this page, and load them only when the user navigates there.
First, we need to create a `todos` folder (or whatever name you choose); In it, we create a translation file for each language we want to support:

```bash
├─ i18n/
   ├─ en.json
   ├─ es.json
   ├─ todos/
      ├─ en.json
      ├─ es.json
```

There are 3 levels of setting the translation scope:

## Lazy Module Providers

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="Standalone">

We can set it inside the _lazy route_ providers:

```ts title="todos.routes.ts"
import { Route } from '@angular/router';
import { provideTranslocoScope } from '@jsverse/transloco';

export const TODO_ROUTES: Route = {
  path: '',
  loadComponent: () =>
    import('./todos.component').then((TodosComponent) => TodosComponent),
  providers: [provideTranslocoScope('todos')],
};
```

We also can provide several scopes at once:

```ts title="core.module.ts"
import { Route } from '@angular/router';
import { provideTranslocoScope } from './transloco.providers';

export const TODO_ROUTES: Route = {
  path: '',
  loadComponent: () =>
    import('./todos.component').then((TodosComponent) => TodosComponent),
  providers: [
    provideTranslocoScope('todos', { scope: 'shared', alias: 'sharedAlias' }),
  ],
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="NgModule">

We can set it inside the _lazy module_ providers:

```ts title="todos.module.ts"
import { provideTranslocoScope } from '@jsverse/transloco';

const routes: Routes = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: TodosComponent,
  },
];

@NgModule({
  declarations: [TodosComponent],
  providers: [provideTranslocoScope('todos')],
  imports: [RouterModule.forChild(routes), TranslocoModule],
})
export class TodosModule {}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Component's Providers

We can set it in a _component's providers_:

```ts title="todos.component.ts"
@Component({
  selector: 'my-comp',
  templateUrl: './my-comp.component.html',
  providers: [provideTranslocoScope('todos')],
})
export class MyComponent {}
```

## Inline Input

We can set the `scope` input in the `transloco` structural directive:

```ts {1} title="todos.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t; scope: 'todos';">
  <h1>{{ t('todos.keyFromTodos') }}</h1>
</ng-container>
```

Each one of these options tells Transloco to load the corresponding `scope` based on the active language and merge it under the scope namespace into the active language translation object.

For example, if the active language is `en`, it will load the `todos/en.json` file, and will set the translation to be the following:

```json
{
  "header": "",
  "login": "",
  "todos": {
    "submit": "",
    "title": ""
  }
}
```

Now we can access each one of the `todos` keys by using the `todos` namespace:

```html title="todos.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t">
  <h1>{{ t('todos.title') }}</h1>
</ng-container>

{{ 'todos.title' | transloco }}

<span transloco="todos.submit"></span>
```

## Scope's namespace
By default, the namespace will be the `scope`'s name camel-cased. you can keep the original casing by providing the [`scope.keepCasing`](../getting-started/config-options#scopeskeepcasing) config option.

You can also provide a custom scope namespace by specifying an `alias` name in the module/component `scope` provider:

```ts
provideTranslocoScope({ scope: 'todos', alias: 'customName' });
```

Now we can access it through `customName` instead of the original scope name (`todos` in our case):

```html title="todos.component.html"
<ng-container *transloco="let t">
  <h1>{{ t('customName.title') }}</h1>
</ng-container>

{{ 'customName.title' | transloco }}

<span transloco="customName.submit"></span>
```
